.TH FoLiA-abby 1 "2023 may 09"

.SH NAME
FoLiA-abby - Convert ABBY files into FoLiA.

.SH SYNOPSIS
FoLiA-abby [options] FILE

FoLiA-abby [options] DIR

.SH DESCRIPTION

When a DIR is provided,
.B FoLiA-abby
will process all files in DIR and store the result in DIR, or in
the directory provided with
.B -O

When a FILE is provided,
.B FoLiA-abby
will process that file and store its result in the directory where FILE is
found or in the directory provided with
.B -O

All files should be in ABBY XML format or BZIP2 or GZ versions thereof.
When the input file(s) are zipped, the output will be too.

.SH OPTIONS
.B --compress
kind
.RS
Use BZIP2 compression (kind=b) or GZIP compression (kind=g)
.RE

.B -O
outdir
.RS
use 'outdir' as a directory name to store the abby-ed files in.
.RE

.B --prefix
prefix
.RS
use 'prefix' as a prefix for ALL xml:id's created. Default is FA-. Use 'none'
for no prefix. A prefix may be needed for files with non NCname characters in
their names.
.RE

.B -S
or
.B --setname
set
.RS
The FoLiA set of the <str> nodes that are created. (default FoLiA-abby-set).
.RE

.B -C
or
.B --class
classname
.RS
The FoLiA classname of the <str> nodes that are created. (default OCR).
.RE

.B --addbreaks
.RS
Normally we make as much 'running' text as possible, concatenating line-parts
into longer lines, when no change in style triggers a new part.
With this option, we insert FoLiA <br/> nodes when newlines are encountered.
.RE

.B --addmetrics
.RS
add metric information to every part. These are the posiions on the page of the parts. The information is collected from the first and last characters in that
part.
.RE

.B -t
or
.B --threads
number
.RS
Number of concurrent threads to be used by the program.
.RE

.B -v
.RS
be more verbose.
.RE

.B -V
or
.B
--version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -h
or
.B --help
.RS
Show some help
.RE

.SH BUGS
possible

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot

Martin Reynaert

e\-mail: lamasoftware@science.ru.nl
