.TH FoLiA-page 1 "2021 may 09"

.SH NAME
FoLiA-page - Convert PAGE files into FoLiA.

.SH SYNOPSIS
FoLiA-page [options] FILE

FoLiA-page [options] DIR

.SH DESCRIPTION

When a DIR is provided,
.B FoLiA-page
will process all files in DIR and store the result in DIR, or in
the directory provided with
.B -O

When a FILE is provided,
.B FoLiA-page
will process that file and store its result in the directory where FILE is
found or in the directory provided with
.B -O

All files should be in PAGE XML format or BZIP2 or GZ versions thereof.
When the input file(s) are zipped, the output will be too.

.SH OPTIONS
.B --compress
kind
.RS
Use BZIP2 compression (kind=b) or GZIP compression (kind=g)
.RE

.B -O
prefix
.RS
use 'prefix' as a directory name to store the page-ed files in.
.RE

.B -S
or
.B --setname
setname
.RS
The FoLiA set of the <str> nodes that are created. (default FoLiA-page-set).
.RE

.B -C
or
.B --class
classname
.RS
The FoLiA classname of the <str> nodes that are created. (default OCR).
.RE

.B --trusttokens
.RS
When the Page™ file contains Word items, assume these are correctly tokenized
and transform them into FoLiA Word and Sentence nodes.
.RE

.B --norefs
.RS
Don't add reference nodes to the original document. (The default is to add).
.RE

.B -t
or
.B --threads
number
.RS
Number of concurrent threads to be used by the program.
.RE

.B -v
.RS
be more verbose.
.RE

.B -V
or
.B --version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -h
.RS
Show some help
.RE

.SH BUGS
possible

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot

Martin Reynaert

email: lamasoftware@science.ru.nl
