.TH FoLiA-alto 1 "2021 jan 19"

.SH NAME
FoLiA-alto - retrieve .alto files as specified in mpeg21.xml DIDL files.
Then extract articles or books from them.

.SH SYNOPSIS
FoLiA-alto [options] FILE

FoLiA-alto [options] DIR

.SH DESCRIPTION

When a DIR is provided,
.B FoLiA-alto
will process all DIDL files in DIR and store its results in the working
directory or in the directory specified with
.B -O

When a FILE is provided,
.B FoLiA-alto
will process that DIDL file and store its results in the directory where FILE is
found, or in the directory specified with
.B -O

.SH OPTIONS
.B --cache
path
.RS
specifies the cache directory for .alto files. They will be kept for later use,
unless
.B --clear
is also present.
.RE

.B --clear
.RS
clear the cache directory at the start of the program.

.RE

.B --type
kind
.RS
Type of document ('krant' or 'boek' Default: 'krant')
.RE

.B --oldstrings
.RS
Fall back to old version that creates <str> nodes. The default is to create
<w> nodes.
.RE

.B --compress
type
.RS
Create compressed files. type=b for .bz2 and type=g for .gz files.
.RE

.B -t
or
.B --threads
number
.RS
Number of concurrent threads to be used by the programme
.RE

.B -V
or
.B --version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -O
outputdir
.RS
Place the output in 'outputdir'
.RE

.B --setname
set
.RS
When creating <str> or <w> nodes,
.B FoLiA-alto
will place them in the setname 'set'. The default is
.B FoLiA-alto-set
.RE

.B --class
name
.RS
When creating <t> nodes,
.B FoLiA-alto
will use this for the textclass name. The default is
.B OCR
.RE

.SH BUGS
possible

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot

Martin Reynaert

email: lamasoftare@science.ru.nl
