.TH FoLiA-langcat 1 "2020 jan 19"

.SH NAME
FoLiA-langcat - a FoLiA language detector
.SH SYNOPSIS

FoLiA-langcat [options] FILE

FoLiA-langcat [options] DIR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B FoLiA-lancat
processes text nodes in FoLiA documents and assigns a language attribute to
each <t> node.
It uses Language Models as provided by Gertjan van Noord's language guesser TextCat.

This program is called 'textcat' 'libtextcat' or 'libexttextcat'
(depending on your configuration.) and is installed in /usr/share/libexttextcat/
or the like.
See also (http://odur.let.rug.nl/~vannoord/TextCat/)

When a DIR is provided,
.B FoLiA-langcat
will process all FoLiA files in DIR and for each file.xml it will produce
a file with a name file.lc.xml

When a FILE is provided,
.B FoLiA-langcat
will simply process that file and create file.lc.xml


.SH OPTIONS
.B --config
config
.RS
read the configuration for the 'textcat' LM from this file.

A typical configuration file might be:
.nf
#
# NB We use the iso639-2 codes here.
#
/usr/share/libexttextcat/nl.lm	dut
/usr/share/libexttextcat/de.lm	ger
.fi

This will detect Dutch and German, and assigns attributes 'dut' or 'ger'
accordingly.

.RE

.B --lang
lan
.RS
for unindentified text, assign the attribute 'lan'. (Default is 'dut')
.RE

.B --all
.RS
assign ALL detected language categories. The default is to assign the most
probable one.
.RE

.B --class
classname
.RS
The FoLiA classname of the <str> nodes that are created. (default OCR).
.RE

.B --tags
tag1,tag2,...,tagn
.RS
Process text in
.B
all
nodes of type <tag1>...<tagn>.
The default is to process text from <p> nodes.
.RE

.B -s
.RS
process FoLiA <str> nodes. OBSOLETE. Shorthand for --tags=s
.RE

.B -V
or
.B --version
.RS
Show VERSION
.RE

.B -h
or
.B --help
.RS
get help
.RE

.B -v
.RS
be more verbose
.RE

.SH BUGS
possibly

.SH AUTHORS
Ko van der Sloot

Martin Reynaert

e\-mail: lamasoftware@science.ru.nl
